Lacan referred to this conflicted, sensual experience of embodied subjectivity (exposed paradoxically by the ultimate scientific objectification) the "hommelette" -- a moist, scrambled "homme" or man, antidote to the bounded, holistic individual ideal of humanism. This experience of the bodily "Real" -- for Lacan, an intuitive, ineffable presence prior to conceptualization in terms of space, time, or objectness -- remains with us through life and evokes a repeated awareness of an indigestible, unmetabolized residue in the external image of us formed by others (cf. the school equivalent in Herve Varenne & Ray McDermott's recent "Successful Failure"). <br><br>One imagines that this "mirroring" of subjective life could also occur at the cultural level, which is perhaps why Greenaway deliberately fosters complicated and convoluted formal permutations of media, genres, styles, and characters in his massive horizontally chained dioramas. <br><br>The director stretches the category of "image," so that it passes beyond the typical repertoire of the arts -- painting, sculpture, photography, film, video -- to embrace more profane graphic domains such as calligraphy, the use of marks or icons, tattoos, and the technical illustrations from scientific textbooks (cf. James Elkins' recent book, "The Domain of Images"). <br><br>Note that, historically, the Vesalian reconstruction of human interiority occurred prior to the Cartesian split of mind and body (the tale narrated at length in Michel Foucault's "The Order of Things"). <br><br>Greenaway uses advanced cinematic techniques and expensive Japanese digital technology to weld the violence of the grotesque with a technical sublime that is breathtakingly realistic in its exquisitely plausible detail yet profoundly and elliptically abstract in its rich symbolic overload.  New age and postmodern aesthetics are thereby grafted on to Renaissance content in a complex, retro hybridization.  By imbedding his technical and intellectual exhibits within a voluptuous matrix, as he first did in the magnificent Borgesian short "A Walk Through H," he deconstructs the traditional binary opposition between technology and art.  A similar attempt, at an arguably more vulgar level, is apparent in Tarsem Singh's recent JLo vehicle, "The Cell." <br><br>-JMB<br>