This film, released in 1999, is considered by many to be the quintessential expression of postmodernism at the end of the 20th century. It follows Thomas Anderson a.k.a. Neo (Keanu Reeves), through a journey from a his dual existence as an office drone by day and hacker by night to a state of awareness that his so-called life is nothing more than a computer generated hallucination. From Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) and his band of followers, Neo learns that most people exist merely as batteries generating the energy necessary to power the intelligent machines that now rule the earth. Instead of being conscious of this bleak reality, the human batteries dream of life at the end of the 20th century, unaware that there is any alternative.<br><br>Neo joins the resistance against the Matrix at the behest of Morpheus who believes that Neo may be "The One," a human born with talents that make him capable of defeating the Matrix and putting humankind on the road to consciousness. In order to determine whether he in fact possesses these powers, Morpheus and Trinity (Carrie-Ann Moss) take Neo to see the Oracle who has prophesied both the efforts of the resistance thus far.<br><br>This clip begins with Neo and Trinity discussing the Oracle's prescient abilities on the journey to her home. Notice the androgyny of these two characters, and consider Baudrillard, who writes about the transition of attraction to an "other" to attraction to one who is the same. What might be the significance of such attractions, particularly in light of the Matrix? Perhaps the comfort in being attracted to one's virtual twin lies in the transformation of romantic love into self-discovery. In Neo's relationships with both Trinity and Morpheus, it is clear that his own self-discovery is paramount to his connections with them, or at least this message is conveyed through the dialogue of the film. Neo's actions, however, belie his status as a true neo-phyte in the world of resisting the hegemony of the Matrix.<br>