The imagery of the cyborg has become quite common in science fiction literature and film/video, as part of the "cyberpunk" aesthetic.  <br>	Early modern works -- such as La Mettrie's gloss on Descartes, L'Homme Machine -- celebrated the way in which seeing the human body as a machine made it susceptible to scientific explanation.  Later, humanistic thinkers became critical of the "mechanistic" quality of this approach, and argued instead for a thoroughly organic approach to the body as living organism (see Stuart Spicker, Philosophy of the Body) In the pop culture world, one might associate La Mettrie's approach with the TV series The 6 Million Dollar Man or the movie Terminator 2, while the humanistic approach can be seen in such movies as Terminator 1, Robocop and Cybercop.<br>	In scholarly writing of a "postmodern" sort, the concept of the cyborg has been employed in a way that differs from both the mechanistic and humanistic approaches.  The cyborg has been used both to raise general questions about the relation of human beings to technology and, in feminist work, to problematize the specific alliances with technology that women can forge for their own emancipation. <br>	The latter effort -- initiated by Donna Haraway's theory in the book Simians, Cyborgs and Women -- has allowed us to rethink as well as rename the role of gender in what used to be called the "man/machine" relation.  Both general and specific questions about cyborgs and images of them are dealt with comprehensively in The Cyborg Handbook by Heidi Figueroa Sarriera and colleagues.<br>	What is the possible significance of the cyborg imagery we see in the first three excerpts from the Tetsuo videos?  What is the specific statement being made about the male body, the female body, and about gender?  Is "cyborgization" a negative, painful, punishing experience?  Or might the cyborg be said to serve a liberatory function for men as well as women? [Compare the work of Sherry Turkle (1984)]. If men benefit as well as women, is a feminist theory of technological appropriation still valid?<br>	How might Tetsuo be used to incite or inform a debate about the role of gender in technology education?